---
layout: post
title:  "How will I get through this semester?"
date:   2020-08-09 03:20:04 +0530
categories: uncategorized
---


 
It is the end of the registration period, and I am still confused about my course selection. My DDP constitutes 30 credits, and I have taken 24 extra credits and audited CS213 (Data structures and Algorithms). So basically 60 credits. Now the way the credit system works at IITB is the number of credits is supposed to be the number of hours per week I am going to work on the course. So that constitutes 60 hours of course work per week. Now theoretically, it is possible. However, I have to argue that I could work no more than 12 hours a day which is also an overestimate given all the time wasted. And also coupled with the fact that we are working now from home will have some new unforeseen time-suckers like bad internet and housework. But on the other hand, we don’t have to go anywhere, which will save commute time.
 
Now I think one day should be kept as work-free day irrespective of one might work or not. This free day provides an incentive to not slack at other days. For me, that is Saturday, and if I don’t work on Saturdays that will leave me with six days and with 12 hours per day. I could theoretically finish my course work for the week in 5 days with one day to spare. This day could be used to brush up any rough edges that I might have. This is nice, but it is only useful if I have nothing else to do. But I do have plenty to do. It is the placement season, and I need to prepare for that along with the fact that the resume deadlines are close and it needs to be near perfect for any chance of me doing good. Add on to this the GRE preparations which I am planning to take part on the 8th of October in Patna. It is also very close to the DDP first stage submissions, and it is just after the mid-semester exams, with a 30 credits worth. Can’t take the risk with that. 
 
So I am adding at least 2 hours of GRE practice and 2 hours of placement preparation per day which leaves me with a total of 60 + 4\*7 = 88 hours of work per week. Dividing that in 6 days comes 14.7 hours per day. Theoretically, that should be possible with a comfortable 8 hours of sleep in a pleasant environment of the home. But I know from the fact that I shouldn’t go beyond the 12 hours threshold or I will lose the quality of my work. But it can’t get lower than the specific limit, or I will get sloppy and procrastinate like I always do.
 
So now somethings has to go from the schedule. Let’s make a precedence order. Now I don’t want to take the CS course. Well, I want to learn Data structures and Algorithms. Still, I took it more for the placement perspective and not for actual learning and also it will require more time than 6 hours per week as per reviews on the internet. So it could wait, and I could take it over the internet when I get free from all this. Now, what about the BB course? Human physiology for engineers - now, this is (was) a part of my BB minor, which I am considering to drop.  I have to do three more courses and to be honest; BB minor courses are kind of repetitive, especially the molecular part. But this course seems interesting to me, and I want to take this course at least. Now, what about the ME course on Advance Heat transfer. I took it as a complementary course to help me with my DDP. However, on a second look over the content - it is mostly what I read in the transport phenomenon and thermodynamics courses.  Maybe more detailed but defiantly familiar, on the other hand, I found this another course ME 662 “Convective Heat and Mass Transfer” - this is what I was looking. The earlier course had both conduction and radiation as a part of the course. It was not required for my DDP and also reduced the time for convective heat transfer in the course. So I will probably change that, but defiantly taking the course. Now, what about the literature reading course - HS 305 - it was supposed to be the humanities elective for me. Still, I opted for psychology which was the right choice. I have taken this course due to my recent admiration for literature and also expecting some help on GRE. Yeah, so it is essential. What about the renewable energy integration course? I am taking it since Zakir sir is teaching it. It is also running for the first time. It will be a little challenging. But I also need some electives in an off chance if my semester exchange courses don’t get mapped. 
 
So the precedence order might look like this. DDP \> Renewable integration \> convective heat transfer \> Reading literature = Physiology for Engineers \> CS 213. SO I am dropping CS 213 and changing the course of ME from Advance heat transfer to convective heat transfer. That still leaves me with 13.7 hours per day. Here is the part where I have to compromise, either with the 12 hours rule of not taking two of the courses. Or I could audit some of the course. But I know I will slack in the audited course, no matter how much I have liked it. But if I have to audit a course, it has to be BB since I could afford to slack at that since I am now not concerned with completing minor and I took it just for the interest. But another caveat here is  - course depends heavily upon the instructor. So, for now, I am just dropping the CS course, and I will wait sometime before changing tags and dropping more courses.
